docs: add migration guide for tsdb (#10978)
grafana/loki: docs/sources/setup/migrate/migrate-to-tsdb/_index.md

we strongly recommend migrating to TSDB.

### Configure TSDB index for an upcoming period

To begin the migration, add a new [period_config]({{< relref "../../../configure#period_config" >}}) entry in your [schema_config]({{< relref "../../../configure#schema_config" >}}).
You can read more about schema config [here]({{< relref "../../../storage#schema-config" >}}).

```
schema_config:
  configs:
    - from: 2023-01-01
      store: boltdb-shipper
      object_store: filesystem
      schema: v11
      index:
        prefix: index_
        period: 24h
    - from: 2023-10-20 ①
      store: tsdb ②
      object_store: filesystem ③
      schema: v12 ④
      index:
        prefix: index_
        period: 24h
```

This example adds a new `period_config` which configures Loki to start using tsdb index for the data ingested from `2023-10-20`.

①  Make sure you are setting the new period `from` to a date in the future.

②  Update the new period to use **tsdb** as the index type.

③  This setup uses filesystem as the storage in both the periods. But if you desire to store the `tsdb` index along with it's chunks in a differnt object store, you can update the `object_store` in the new period.

> ④  Optionally update the schema to v12 which is the recommended verison at the time of writing. Please refer to [configure page]({{< relref "../../../configure#period_config" >}}) for the current recommend version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
④  Optionally update the schema to v12 which is the recommended version at the time of writing. Please refer to [configure page]({{< relref "../../../configure#period_config" >}}) for the current recommend version.
```

> ④  Optionally update the schema to v12 which is the recommended verison at the time of writing. Please refer to [configure page]({{< relref "../../../configure#period_config" >}}) for the current recommend version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
④  Optionally update the schema to v12 which is the recommended verison at the time of writing. Please refer to the [configure page]({{< relref "../../../configure#period_config" >}}) for the current recommend version.
```

{{% admonition type="note" %}}

> It's important that you rollout the new `period_config` change to all loki components for it to take effect.

Reviewer: This is pretty important, I'd place this note before the code snippet.

{{% /admonition %}}

### Configure TSDB shipper

It's also important that you configure the `tsdb_shipper` block in [storage_config]({{< relref "../../../configure#storage_config" >}}). Mainly the following options:
- `active_index_directory`: directory where ingesters would write index files which would then be uploaded by shipper to configured storage.
- `cache_location`: cache location for downloading index files from the storage for use in query path.

```

> tsdb_shipper:

Reviewer: This should go inside `storage_config` right?

  active_index_directory: /data/tsdb-index
  cache_location: /data/tsdb-cache
```

### Run compactor

> It is strongly recommended that you run compactor when using TSDB index. It is responsible for running compaction and retention on TSDB index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We strongly recommended running the compactor <add link?> when using TSDB index. It is responsible for running compaction and retention on TSDB index.
```

---
title: Migrate to TSDB
menuTitle: Migrate to TSDB
description: Migration guide for moving from any of the older indexes to TSDB
weight: 100
keywords:
  - migrate
  - tsdb
---

# Migrate to TSDB

[TSDB]({{< relref "../../../operations/storage/tsdb" >}}) is the recommeneded index type for Loki and is where the current development lies.
If you are running Loki with [boltb-shipper]({{< relref "../../../operations/storage/boltdb-shipper" >}}) or any of the [legacy index types]({{< relref "../../../storage#index-storage" >}}) that have been deprecated,
we strongly recommend migrating to TSDB.

### Configure TSDB index for an upcoming period

To begin the migration, add a new [period_config]({{< relref "../../../configure#period_config" >}}) entry in your [schema_config]({{< relref "../../../configure#schema_config" >}}).
You can read more about schema config [here]({{< relref "../../../storage#schema-config" >}}).

{{% admonition type="note" %}}

> It's important that you rollout the new `period_config` change to all loki components for it to take effect.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You must roll out the new `period_config` change to all Loki components in order for it to take effect.
```

> {{% admonition type="note" %}}
> It's important that you rollout the new `period_config` change to all loki components for it to take effect.
> {{% /admonition %}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{% admonition type="note" %}}
You must roll out the new `period_config` change to all Loki components in order for it to take effect.
{{% /admonition %}}
```

```
schema_config:
  configs:
    - from: 2023-01-01
      store: boltdb-shipper
      object_store: filesystem
      schema: v11
      index:
        prefix: index_
        period: 24h
    - from: 2023-10-20 ①
      store: tsdb ②
      object_store: filesystem ③
      schema: v12 ④
      index:
        prefix: index_
        period: 24h
```

> This example adds a new `period_config` which configures Loki to start using tsdb index for the data ingested from `2023-10-20`.

Reviewer 2: Consider moving this line above the example.
```suggestion
This example adds a new `period_config` which configures Loki to start using the TSDB index for the data ingested starting from `2023-10-20`.
```

> This example adds a new `period_config` which configures Loki to start using tsdb index for the data ingested from `2023-10-20`.

Reviewer 2: Consider moving this line above the example code.
```suggestion
This example adds a new `period_config` which configures Loki to start using the TSDB index for the data ingested starting from `2023-10-20`.
```

> ①  Make sure you are setting the new period `from` to a date in the future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
①  You must set the new `from` period to a date in the future.
```

> ②  Update the new period to use **tsdb** as the index type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
②  Update the new `from` period to use TSDB as the index type by setting `store: tsdb`.
```

> ③  This setup uses filesystem as the storage in both the periods. But if you desire to store the `tsdb` index along with it's chunks in a differnt object store, you can update the `object_store` in the new period.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
③  This sample uses filesystem as the storage in both the `from` periods. If you want to use a different storage for the TSDB index and chunks, you can specify a different `object_store` when you define the new `from` period.
```

> ④  Optionally update the schema to v12 which is the recommended version at the time of writing. Please refer to the [configure page]({{< relref "../../../configure#period_config" >}}) for the current recommend version.

Reviewer 2: If this is the recommended schema, let's just tell them to update it.
```suggestion
④  Update the schema to v12 which is the recommended version at the time of writing. Please refer to the [configure page]({{< relref "../../../configure#period_config" >}}) for the current recommend version.
```

### Configure TSDB shipper

> It's also important that you configure the `tsdb_shipper` block in [storage_config]({{< relref "../../../configure#storage_config" >}}). Mainly the following options:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's also important that you configure the `tsdb_shipper` block in [storage_config]({{< relref "../../../configure#storage_config" >}}). Specifically the following options:
```

> - `active_index_directory`: directory where ingesters would write index files which would then be uploaded by shipper to configured storage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `active_index_directory`: directory where ingesters will write index files which would then be uploaded by shipper to configured storage.
```

- `cache_location`: cache location for downloading index files from the storage for use in query path.

```
storage_config:
  tsdb_shipper:
    active_index_directory: /data/tsdb-index
    cache_location: /data/tsdb-cache
```

### Run compactor

We strongly recommended running the [compactor]({{< relref "../../../operations/storage/retention#compactor" >}}) when using TSDB index. It is responsible for running compaction and retention on TSDB index.

> Not running index compaction would result in sub-optimal query performance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Not running index compaction will result in sub-optimal query performance.
```
